You look at the computer screen and see a graph. On one axis you see days, on the the other axis you see the word confirmed cases. 
I see you’ve found an example of some of our ratio data. As you can see, with ratio data we can see how quickly the number of cases are growing.
You look intensely at jars filled with various chemicals labeled poisonous, toxic and explosive.
Oh the names on those jars are nominal data and describe what type of content they hold. Don’t touch it by the way.
[Friend] points at a poster, and reads out a question on scale from 1 to 5 how satisfied are you with your visit to the lab.
Oh Oh! I know what this is. Its ordinary data is right.
Close its ordinal data
Oh! What is this?
That, my child, is a thermometer. It is a device that measures degrees of Farenheit and Celsius. This is a fine example of interval data. 
Wow! Look at all of this! It’s amazing!
I know! Isn’t this cool?! yelled another student.
Settle down, children. I know science is intriguing, but be careful you don’t touch anything.
Now, now. It’s fine. I’m just so happy to see a bunch of future scientists right before my eyes.
As you wish, Sir.
Ahem.
Everyone, let’s sit down for our lesson.
Data is how we describe things. It can be as simple as binary data like, are you guys in a lab right now? This type of data only has two possible responses. Other data can have multiple possibilities (he points towards you), What’s your name
Nice to meet you [player] . Your name is an example of nominal data. Nominal means name. Nominal data are usually categories or descriptions. 
Other types of data include ratio and interval data. Both of these data types involve numbers. For interval data, zero can be set to mean whatever we want. While in ratio data, zero always means none. How many girls are there in the room?
How many boys are there in the room?
The number of boys and girls in this room is an example of ratio data. There could be zero boys in the room which would mean there are no boys in the room.
Interval data on the other hand would be the temperature in the room. If we are measuring temperature in celsius 0 is set to temperature that water freezes. Finally theres ordinal data, or things we can put in order and rank
*whispers* This is so boring, I wish he’d stop talking and let us play with all the stuff in the room
The Scientist glances at you and molly
And for Ordinal Data 1 could be you are totally bored by my lecture, and 5 could mean you’re excited to listen.
That was oddly specific do you think he heard us?
Not now Molly
Shh
I think he did
Or a scale from 1 to 3 on how well I heard you. One being I didn’t hear you well and three I heard everything you said. If I replied to this scale with a two, you would know that I heard more than nothing and less than everything. But you wouldn’t be able to tell exactly how much more than nothing, I heard. (*wink*)
oooooh
Thank you, feel free to look at things and ask questions
Another student points to two piles of papers one marked confirmed and the other marked unconfirmed.
This is an example of binary data. Here we sort patient reports, into two possibilities, a confirmed case or an unconfirmed case. We either have enough facts to say that a case is confirmed otherwise its unconfirmed. There are no maybes. 
Molly dashes around the room. She bumps into a shelf with various chemicals, and a jar labelled tumbles off the shelf and is about to hit you.
Watch out [player]!
Molly? Molly?!
AHHHHHH
You wake up, faceplanted on the dusty floor. 
Molly? Are you okay?
Yeah.
Was it about that again?
Huh? Oh. No.
Then what?
Remember the field trip we took to SC**NCE LAB in the third grade?
I just remember that the teacher was HOT
OMIGOD [Friend]
...and that was the day you decided to pursue SCIENCE for the rest of your life.
Yeah.
It’s a shame you didn’t get to finish your degree in SCIENCE
What a dream. It’s been five years since modern science has been erased from our lives.
Extra! Extra! Read all about it!
Oh, it’s the paperboy.
Hey, Molly. Can you get the newspaper? I’m gonna make food.
Sure
You open the door to find the local paperboy throwing newpapers at people’s doorsteps.
A new lab is opening up, and they wanna create medicine!
Medicine?
Yup! I hear they’re looking the best of the best!
Oh
I hear that if you get in, you get the best benefits.
best benefits, huh?
You decide to help [Friend] study for the interview. Afterall you'd be sad if you didn't get to see her in the lab
Pointing at [LI] what's he doing here
He's here to help
Nominal data is...
A easy way to remember is nominal kind of sounds like name
You point to [LI]
For Example, 
That doesn't really make sense. Isn't height a number you can measure
This works as an example. I’m single *blush* but I could be in other categories such as engaged or married (one day)
I'd say this would be Ratio data
Well that one makes sense
What I really have trouble with is Ratio and Itererval. Aren't they like the same thing. Like, they both got numbers right?
Not quite. There is a difference between the two.
Let's start with interval data.
Interval data is...
Maybe this one is ratio?
I'm pretty sure this is binary.
Oh, oh! I remember this one! This is ordinary data. I mean ordinal.
Looking around the room
The time on a clock could be consider a interaval
You can subtract two diffrent times from each other. But unlike a ratio it doesn't make sense to perform division. Dividing 2pm by 12am doesn't make any sense.
*nods* Theres also no true 0 or starting point.
For example, the color of this chair
Is considered nominal data right?
right
Wait this isn't quite right
Remember intervals don't have a true zero and can't form ratios.
So 1/4 cup would not be part of a interval. Since there is a 0 cup and you can form ratios. Like 1/4 cup is exactly half of a half cup
So what about ratio
A ratio is ...
Wasn't this interval?
This doesn't seem right
This doesn't seem right
Looking around the room
I already said this was an interval
For example, the color of this chair
Is considered nominal data right?
right
Weight is an example of ratio data. Theres an absolute 0 and we can multiply, divide and form ratios from weight.
Nope. I can't form ratios out of grade levels. 9th grade over 12th grade makes no sense, and the zero point is arbituary. Some people start counting from kindergarten, other start at first grade.
Then there were two
You're making a lame joke about binary data right?
Its not lame. And yes
You're making a lame joke about binary data right?
I was thinking more along the lines of binary
Binary data is
Sounds exactly like nominal to me
Sounds exactly like ratio to me
Sounds exactly like interval to me
Hold on. Let me start from the top
To demostrate I'll ask [L.I] a question
Do you have an ulterior motive?
I'm 90 percent sure I don't
Was that a binary response?
Well no it wasn't but .. 
I'm looking for a yes or no. All or nothing answer
Fine, maybe I do have an ulterior motive
Oooh this is getting spicy
I don't know what ordinal data is and I'm hoping you'd define it for me
I know we're competing for the same position but ...
I dont see an issue with helping you.
Really?
Heres a binary answer [player] means yes
Ordinal data is
Sounds exactly like nominal to me
Sounds exactly like ratio to me
Sounds exactly like interval to me
Hold on. Let me start from the top
[Friend] pull out the
Wait let me try again
hold on that works better for ratio
we can't really assigned an order to these
You stole from [Scientist] and kept it this long?
Back on topic please?
Do you see the scale that goes from unsatisfied 1 to very satisfied 5
It's an ordinal scale because you can assign an order, but if I rated you at a 3.
You wouldn't know exactly how much more I was satisifed then if I say rated you at 1. All you can say is that, I'm somewhere between very satisfied and unsatisfied with you
So I can add or subtract these ratings
right
Well I give your explanation a 5. Thanks for helping me
I think I'll be seeing you soon
I hope so
Not sure if this is correct
I think I'm going to be late. I better hurry I hope I make it in time
I run frantically down the street.
In front of me I see a strange man in a lab coat staring out into the distance. 
I keep runninng
*Crash* the strange man drops his folders and papers scatter everywhere
Ouch. Sorry Mister no time to stop I got an interview to catch
You look down and see some interesting notes. You recognize the labels on the folder as the categories of data you learned as a kid
On second thought, mister do you need some help?
*smirks* Always
It wouldn't hurt to take a little break
The wind blows and you see papers come flying out
You catch one
Hey kid, mind helping me out
I guess I could keep all this classified top secret scientific info all to myself
I'm most definetly not falling for this.
Oh yeah? What's so important about a few pieces of paper?
Why don't you help me and find out
I'm already late anyways
[response]
[response]
I think I'm right on this one
